**Toril** was the third planet from the Sun in Realmspace. It was orbited by one moon named Selûne, and by a cluster of asteroids, known as the Tears of Selûne.

Throughout most of its history, Toril was known less commonly as **Abeir-Toril**. The name "Abeir-Toril" was archaic, meaning "cradle of life" in an extinct and forgotten language. Since the Spellplague and the revelation of the existence of a planetary sibling known as Abeir, and the fact that both Abeir and Toril were once united, the latter name came to informally mean the formerly united worlds of Abeir and Toril.

# Faerun

The westernmost portion of Toril's central supercontinent, a diverse landscape inhabited by numerous races and cultures, including humans, dwarves, elves, halflings, and gnomes.

The word "Faerûn" was a modified version of "Faerie", the name of the homeland of ancient elves. The term was coined by Durothil, prince of Tintageer, Faerie.


## Regions

### Northwest

A region of wilderness, difficult winter weather, orc hordes, and barbarian tribes, this region was generally referred to as "The North", which also contained most of the "Sword Coast North". It was a mostly untamed region that lay between the large Anauroch desert in the east and the expansive Sea of Swords in the west, north of the High Moor.

This area contained:

- [[High Forest]]: A traditional home of the elves.
- Frozenfar: The frigid north that contained the Ten Towns of Icewind Dale, the Spine of the World and the Sea of Moving Ice.
- Savage Frontier: The rugged frontier of the north that attracted farmsteaders and others that chose to live off the land.
- Silver Marches: A confederation of humans, dwarves, and elves, with the city of Silverymoon at its heart.
- [[Sword Coast North]]: This dangerous coastal area comprised several great cities, including the metropolis of [[Waterdeep]] and the city of [[Neverwinter]].

## Religions

TODO: General + Raven Queen 